Traditional API gateways, reverse proxies and AI gateways, such as Envoy, were built and optimized for RESTful microservices architectures where the gateway receives short-lived HTTP requests from a client, decides on a backend, and forwards the request to that backend. Typically, no session context or ongoing connection state is required in these cases. 

MCP, by contrast, is a stateful protocol based on JSON-RPC with its own semantics for how to retrieve and exchange context with LLMs. MCP clients and servers must maintain long-lived sessions where requests and responses are sent constantly. Every request and response must be tied to the same session context. In addition, MCP servers can initiate messages back to the client asynchronously, which makes keeping track of all stateful sessions challenging. 

A single client request, such as to list all available tools, might require the proxy to access multiple backend MCP servers, aggregate the responses, and return a single coherent result. In addition, clients might not have access to all the tools that are available on the server. The proxy must be capable to dynamically adjust its responses on a per-session basis and map each client session to the backend servers it is allowed to access. 

Traditional gateways were not designed and built to support the session and message awareness that is required to properly handle stateful, session-based, and bidirectional communications. In addition, these communication patterns are very resource intensive and can quickly overwhelm traditional gateways leading to performance impacts or even failure. Without major re-architecture, traditional gateways cannot support the rise of agentic AI use cases. 